# CS-250 Portfolio

## How do I interpret user needs and implement them into a program? How does creating “user stories” help with this?

User stories are brief explanations to a feature or functionality a user wants to see implemented within a program. They help define requirements into a simple definition that anyone can understand. Stories are split into three different parts, beginning with a role a user will fulfill, the role's intended task, and a "so that" clause that explains why the feature is needed. It is a useful metric that outlines tasks onto a product's backlog so developers can properly deliver functional software using increments based on user stories.

## How do I approach developing programs? What agile processes do I hope to incorporate into my future development work?

Incorporating an agile approach to developing a program provides a framework that relies heavily on quickly delivering high value functional software without over comprehensive documentation during the planning period. It allows incremental development with work being delivered within sprints, where a development team accomplishes a specific objective in a short amount of time based on a broken down project using manageable individual tasks. Having daily 15 minute stand-up meetings, providing regular progress updates and mention changes, allows an effective but also efficient form of communication where everyone is required to participate while facilitating as much development time as possible to complete a project's tasks. Project scope changes at any point in development must be welcomed as a way to stay competitive and allow enough room for adaptability for developers as a result of sudden shifts in development. This also includes having as much communication directly with the client as possible to understand their expectations and regularly provide updates of progress. Transparency is key, as a method of allowing the end-user to be fully aware of what is to be delivered in case they want to make any changes during development to avoid any drawbacks or an undesired product. Lastly, every member within the entire development team must always continuously learn to adopt an agile methodology and techniques to ensure they understand the principles that produce a high value product.

## What does it mean to be a good team member in software development?

A good team member consistently works with every member by openly communication in doubts or concerns during development. While contributing to a positive and uplifting environment for every team member. It is about welcoming sudden changes that may occur at any time, adopting an agile framework within every aspect of their work. It is also about being self-organized and work towards being cross-functional to achieve the common goal of a project. Along with incorporating sufficient amounts of feedback from other members or the end-user to understand accurate expectations. Clear communication is the most important factor for a good team member in software development, it is an ability every developer must always try to practice as much as possible to encourage collaboration and teamwork in the industry.
